Agricultural operations work far differently than those a few decades ago, primarily because of advancements in technology including sensors, devices, machines etc. Farmers in India are unable to utilize the scientific data and technology to improve crop yields and are unable to keep themselves up-to-date with cutting edge methods of farming. The project “FARM ASSIST - DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEM FOR FARMERS” is a new and simplified approach to the decision making in farming. This project is an Android Application which intends to help the Indian Farming community to aid their decision making in some aspects of Agriculture. This project aims to provide an integrated and accessible Decision Support System to ease the thought process of Farmers by suggesting a set of crops that are favourable to grow, based on Monsoon, Weather Conditions and Soil Texture. This Application also helps the Farmers to identify 28 Leaf Diseases in various crops using Deep Learning. The main idea is to allow Farmers to gain a better understanding of the situation on the ground through advanced technology that can tell them more about their situation than that is seen with the naked eye and at no price. This Application, is an example to demonstrate how we can develop the farming approach in India using latest technological advancements in a fruitful manner.

1. I have used a weather API to obtain weather parameters, Soil Grids API maintained by UNO and the USDA soil texture triangle to estimate the soil texture in a particular location and a personally curated dataset based on research for Crop Recommendation. This is just a prototype to show how we can leverage the existing systems to help solve the problems faced by farmers.
2. I have used Plant Village Dataset to train the deep learning model for leaf disease detection
3. Both the modules Crop Recommendation and Leaf Disease Detection are integrated(deployed) into an android application "Farm Assist" which demonstrates how we can provide effective low cost solutions to help the Indian farming community 
